# Orbiter Syntax Guide

This quick guide will help you getting started with the text/gemini markup language. This syntax has much in common with Markdown, but it is more simple and it has less formatting features.

## File format

Create your files with the extension ".gmi" or ".gemini" and Orbiter will detect them as Gemini files.

## Text

Anything you write, if it doesn't mach any other line definition, will be recognized as a text line. One single line is presented as a single paragraph, where the text is split at white spaces when the line is longer than the maximum width. Starting a new line means that the text in the new line will be presented in the next line. One empty line has no special meaning: it will be presented as an empty line as well. Consecutive empty lines are not collapsed: there will be more empty space for each line break.

In order to make the files easier to read and write, you can configure your text editor to wrap the lines at the end of the editing box.

## Links

Lines beginning with the two characters "=>" are link lines, which have the following syntax:
```
=>[<whitespace>]<URL>[<whitespace><USER-FRIENDLY LINK NAME>]
```

## Headings

Lines beginning with "#" are heading lines. The number of # characters indicates the "level" of header; #, ## and ### are analogous to <h1>, <h2> and <h3> in HTML.
```
# Heading 1
## Heading 2
### Heading 3
```

## Lists

Lines beginning with "* " are unordered list items. They will be presented as a bullet point list.
```
To do list:
* Organize trip
* Buy a plane ticket
* Book a hotel
```

## Quotes

Lines beginning with ">" are quote lines.
```
> I have no special talent. I am only passionately curious.
Albert Einstein
```

## Preformatted blocks

Any line whose first three characters are "```" (i.e. three consecutive back ticks with no leading whitespace) are preformatted toggle lines. The text between two preformatted toggle lines will not be formatted: you can use this for source code or ASCII art.


# Reference

=> https://gemini.circumlunar.space/docs/specification.html Gemini protocol specification
